Add Qt programs to msvc build (updated, no code changes) (#15529)
bitcoin/bitcoin: build_msvc/README.md

Introduction
---------------------
Solution and project files to build the Bitcoin Core applications `msbuild` or Visual Studio can be found in the build_msvc directory. The build has been tested with Visual Studio 2017 and 2019.

Building with Visual Studio is an alternative to the Linux based [cross-compiler build](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/build-windows.md).

Quick Start
---------------------
The minimal steps required to build Bitcoin Core with the msbuild toolchain are below. More detailed instructions are contained in the following sections.

```

> vcpkg install --triplet x64-windows-static boost-filesystem boost-signals2 boost-test libevent openssl zeromq berkeleydb secp256k1 leveldb rapidcheck

Reviewer: `double-conversion` is missing here

Author: Thanks for reviewing! The `secp256k1` and `leveldb` packages aren't required anymore either since they're now included as source projects. I'll fix it up.

> python build_msvc\msvc-autogen.py

Reviewer: Should this use the new syntax from #16483? `py -3 msvc-autogen.py`

Author: Yes it should. Fixed.

msbuild /m build_msvc\bitcoin.sln /p:Platform=x64 /p:Configuration=Release /t:build
```

Dependencies
---------------------
A number of [open source libraries](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/dependencies.md) are required in order to be able to build Bitcoin Core.

Options for installing the dependencies in a Visual Studio compatible manner are:

- Use Microsoft's [vcpkg](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/vcpkg) to download the source packages and build locally. This is the recommended approach.
- Download the source code, build each dependency, add the required include paths, link libraries and binary tools to the Visual Studio project files.
- Use [nuget](https://www.nuget.org/) packages with the understanding that any binary files have been compiled by an untrusted third party.

> The external dependencies required for are (see [dependencies.md](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/dependencies.md) for more info):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [external dependencies](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/dependencies.md) required for building are:
```

- Berkeley DB
- Boost
- DoubleConversion
- libevent
- OpenSSL
- Qt5
- RapidCheck
- ZeroMQ

Qt
---------------------
All the Bitcoin Core applications are configured to build with static linking. In order to build the Bitcoin Core Qt applications a static build of Qt is required.

The runtime library version (e.g. v141, v142) and platform type (x86 or x64) must also match. OpenSSL must also be linked into the Qt binaries in order to provide full functionality of the Bitcoin Core Qt programs. An example of the configure command to build Qtv5.9.7 locally to link with Bitcoin Core is shown below (adjust paths accordingly), note it can be expected that the configure and subsequent build will fail numerous times until dependency issues are resolved.

````

> ..\Qtv5.9.7_src\configure -developer-build -confirm-license -debug-and-release -opensource -platform win32-msvc -opengl desktop -no-shared -static -no-static-runtime -mp -qt-zlib -qt-pcre -qt-libpng -qt-libjpeg -ltcg -make libs -make tools -nomake examples -no-compile-examples -no-dbus -no-libudev -no-qml-debug -no-icu -no-gtk -no-opengles3 -no-angle -no-sql-sqlite -no-sql-odbc -no-sqlite -no-libudev -skip qt3d -skip qtactiveqt -skip qtandroidextras -skip qtcanvas3d -skip qtcharts -skip qtconnectivity -skip qtdatavis3d -skip qtdeclarative -skip qtdoc -skip qtgamepad -skip qtgraphicaleffects -skip qtimageformats -skip qtlocation -skip qtmacextras -skip qtmultimedia -skip qtnetworkauth -skip qtpurchasing -skip qtquickcontrols -skip qtquickcontrols2 -skip qtscript -skip qtscxml -skip qtsensors -skip qtserialbus -skip qtserialport -skip qtspeech -skip qtvirtualkeyboard -skip qtwayland -skip qtwebchannel -skip qtwebengine -skip qtwebsockets -skip qtwebview -skip qtx11extras -skip qtxmlpatterns -nomake tests -openssl-linked -IC:\Dev\github\vcpkg\installed\x64-windows-static\include -LC:\Dev\github\vcpkg\installed\x64-windows-static\lib OPENSSL_LIBS="-llibeay32 -lssleay32 -lgdi32 -luser32 -lwsock32 -ladvapi32" -prefix C:\Qt5.9.7_ssl_x64_static_vs2017

Reviewer: This is a bit of an ugly blob to have in the README.md. I assume it will remain fairly static?

You should be able to swap `-qt-libjpeg` for `-no-libjpeg` after #16441.

Author: I agree it's very ugly. It could be left out however if another dev wants to build Qt on Windows to link with Bitcoin Core it's a very useful starting point. I've adjusted the libjpeg option in advance.

> ````

Reviewer 2: is this meant to work if you ran the vcpkg above?

Author: Not necessarily. Building Qt is an exercise in perseverance. I typically find the build fails over 10 times before eventually working. This is not very comforting for repeatable and/or reliable builds and a superior alternative would be if the official Qt binaries contained static libraries. My compromise is to provide my own successful build as a download.

>     PS >python msvc-autogen.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     PS >py -3 msvc-autogen.py
```
